_Sidebar.md, before:

[**Home**](Home)

___
**tModLoader References**
- [Source Documentation](http://blushiemagic.github.io/tModLoader/html/index.html)
- [Information: build.txt](build.txt)
- [Information: description.txt](description.txt)
- [Developing with Visual Studio](Developing-with-Visual-Studio)
- [Developing on Mac or Linux](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.23726/page-526#post-1001200)
- [Mod Browser](Mod-Browser)

___
**Getting Started Guides**
- [Basic tModLoader Usage Guide](Basic-tModLoader-Usage-Guide)
- [Basic tModLoader Usage FAQ](Basic-tModLoader-Usage-FAQ)
- [Basic tModLoader Modding Starter Guide](Basic-tModLoader-Modding-Guide) - Start here if you want to make a mod.
- [Basic tModLoader Modding FAQ](Basic-tModLoader-Modding-FAQ)

___
**Basic Modding Guides**
- [Basic Guide Prerequisites](Basic-Prerequisites)
- [Basic Item](Basic-Item)
- [Basic NPC Spawning](Basic-NPC-Spawning)
- [Basic Autoload](Basic-Autoload)
- [Basic Recipes](Basic-Recipes)
- [Basic Glowmasks](Basic-glowmask-guide)
- [Basic Ammo](Basic-Ammo)
- [Basic Sounds](Basic-Sounds)
- [ModTile/TileObjectData](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.23726/page-238#post-840809)
- [Basic guide for JSON & ModConfigs](Basic-guide-for-JSON-&-ModConfigs)
___
**Intermediate Modding Guides**
- [Intermediate Guide Prerequisites](Intermediate-Prerequisites)
- [Intermediate Recipes](Intermediate-Recipes): RecipeGroups, RecipeFinder/RecipeEditor
- [Intermediate modding with c#6](Intermediate-modding-with-c%236)

**Advanced Modding Guides**
- [Advanced Guide Prerequisites](Advanced-Prerequisites)
- [Advanced Vanilla Code Adaption](Advanced-Vanilla-Code-Adaption)

**Expert Modding Guides**
- [Expert Guide Prerequisites](Expert-Prerequisites)
- [Expert Cross Mod Content](Expert-Cross-Mod-Content): Call, weakReferences, modReferences, recipes
___
**Uncategorized Guides**
- [Tutorial: [1] Getting started with tModLoader](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.44817/)
- [Tutorial: [2] Recipes](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.44822/)
- [Tutorial: [3] Items](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.44842/)
- [Tutorial: [4] Projectiles](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.44857/)
- [Projectile Guide and Implementation](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.40062/)
- [Custom Bosses - NPC AI and Server Syncing](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.10474/)
- [Creating Simple UI: Custom Resource Bars](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.53417/)

___
**Youtube Tutorials**
- [Al0n37](https://www.youtube.com/user/Al0n37/videos)
- [Lynx](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYaXRYIpx67Hc3JJ3ZcCbzYwDAko9Q_lJ) - Recommended

**Youtube content creators covering modded content**
- [Pedguin](https://www.youtube.com/user/PedguinGames)
- [ChippyGaming](https://www.youtube.com/user/ChippyGaming)
- [HappyDays](https://www.youtube.com/user/happydaysgames)
- [PythonGB](https://www.youtube.com/user/PythonGB)

___
**Vanilla Refereces**
- [Vanilla Ammo IDs](Vanilla-Ammo-IDs)
- [Vanilla Buff IDs](Vanilla-Buff-IDs)
- [Vanilla Item Field Values](Vanilla-Item-Field-Values)
- [Vanilla Item IDs](Vanilla-Item-IDs)
- [Vanilla NPC Field Values](Vanilla-NPC-Field-Values)
- [Vanilla NPC IDs](Vanilla-NPC-IDs)
- [BannerToNPC Conversions](BannerToNPC-Conversions)
- [Vanilla Projectile AIs](Vanilla-Projectile-AIs)
- [Vanilla Projectile IDs](Vanilla-Projectile-IDs)
- [Vanilla Projectile Field Values](Vanilla-Projectile-Field-Values)
- [Vanilla Recipes](http://bit.ly/TerrariaVanillaRecipes)
- [Vanilla Sound IDs](Vanilla-Sound-IDs)
- [Vanilla Tile IDs](Vanilla-Tile-IDs)
- [Vanilla Wall IDs](Vanilla-Wall-IDs)
- [Vanilla World Generation Steps](Vanilla-World-Generation-Steps)
- [Useful Vanilla Fields](Useful-Vanilla-Fields)
- [Useful Vanilla Methods](Useful-Vanilla-Methods)
- [Vanilla Interface layers values](Vanilla-Interface-layers-values)
- [Vanilla Interface Changes](Vanilla-Class-Changes)

___
**Other**
- [TagCompound](TagCompound)
- [Mount Data Parameters](MountDataParameters)
- [Open Source Mods](Open-Source-Mods)
- [Command Line Arguments and Server Config](Command-Line)

Commit message:

Note: tutorial [x] are likely outdated, it is recommended you use contents on this wiki instead

_Sidebar.md, after:

[**Home**](Home)

___
**tModLoader References**
- [Source Documentation](http://blushiemagic.github.io/tModLoader/html/index.html)
- [Information: build.txt](build.txt)
- [Information: description.txt](description.txt)
- [Developing with Visual Studio](Developing-with-Visual-Studio)
- [Developing on Mac or Linux](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.23726/page-526#post-1001200)
- [Mod Browser](Mod-Browser)

___
**Getting Started Guides**
- [Basic tModLoader Usage Guide](Basic-tModLoader-Usage-Guide)
- [Basic tModLoader Usage FAQ](Basic-tModLoader-Usage-FAQ)
- [Basic tModLoader Modding Starter Guide](Basic-tModLoader-Modding-Guide) - Start here if you want to make a mod.
- [Basic tModLoader Modding FAQ](Basic-tModLoader-Modding-FAQ)

___
**Basic Modding Guides**
- [Basic Guide Prerequisites](Basic-Prerequisites)
- [Basic Item](Basic-Item)
- [Basic NPC Spawning](Basic-NPC-Spawning)
- [Basic Autoload](Basic-Autoload)
- [Basic Recipes](Basic-Recipes)
- [Basic Glowmasks](Basic-glowmask-guide)
- [Basic Ammo](Basic-Ammo)
- [Basic Sounds](Basic-Sounds)
- [ModTile/TileObjectData](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.23726/page-238#post-840809)
- [Basic guide for JSON & ModConfigs](Basic-guide-for-JSON-&-ModConfigs)
___
**Intermediate Modding Guides**
- [Intermediate Guide Prerequisites](Intermediate-Prerequisites)
- [Intermediate Recipes](Intermediate-Recipes): RecipeGroups, RecipeFinder/RecipeEditor
- [Intermediate modding with c#6](Intermediate-modding-with-c%236)

**Advanced Modding Guides**
- [Advanced Guide Prerequisites](Advanced-Prerequisites)
- [Advanced Vanilla Code Adaption](Advanced-Vanilla-Code-Adaption)

**Expert Modding Guides**
- [Expert Guide Prerequisites](Expert-Prerequisites)
- [Expert Cross Mod Content](Expert-Cross-Mod-Content): Call, weakReferences, modReferences, recipes
___
**Uncategorized Guides**

Note: tutorial [x] are likely outdated, it is recommended you use contents on this wiki instead
- [Tutorial: [1] Getting started with tModLoader](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.44817/)
- [Tutorial: [2] Recipes](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.44822/)
- [Tutorial: [3] Items](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.44842/)
- [Tutorial: [4] Projectiles](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.44857/)
- [Projectile Guide and Implementation](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.40062/)
- [Custom Bosses - NPC AI and Server Syncing](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.10474/)
- [Creating Simple UI: Custom Resource Bars](https://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.53417/)

___
**Youtube Tutorials**
- [Al0n37](https://www.youtube.com/user/Al0n37/videos)
- [Lynx](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYaXRYIpx67Hc3JJ3ZcCbzYwDAko9Q_lJ) - Recommended

**Youtube content creators covering modded content**
- [Pedguin](https://www.youtube.com/user/PedguinGames)
- [ChippyGaming](https://www.youtube.com/user/ChippyGaming)
- [HappyDays](https://www.youtube.com/user/happydaysgames)
- [PythonGB](https://www.youtube.com/user/PythonGB)

___
**Vanilla Refereces**
- [Vanilla Ammo IDs](Vanilla-Ammo-IDs)
- [Vanilla Buff IDs](Vanilla-Buff-IDs)
- [Vanilla Item Field Values](Vanilla-Item-Field-Values)
- [Vanilla Item IDs](Vanilla-Item-IDs)
- [Vanilla NPC Field Values](Vanilla-NPC-Field-Values)
- [Vanilla NPC IDs](Vanilla-NPC-IDs)
- [BannerToNPC Conversions](BannerToNPC-Conversions)
- [Vanilla Projectile AIs](Vanilla-Projectile-AIs)
- [Vanilla Projectile IDs](Vanilla-Projectile-IDs)
- [Vanilla Projectile Field Values](Vanilla-Projectile-Field-Values)
- [Vanilla Recipes](http://bit.ly/TerrariaVanillaRecipes)
- [Vanilla Sound IDs](Vanilla-Sound-IDs)
- [Vanilla Tile IDs](Vanilla-Tile-IDs)
- [Vanilla Wall IDs](Vanilla-Wall-IDs)
- [Vanilla World Generation Steps](Vanilla-World-Generation-Steps)
- [Useful Vanilla Fields](Useful-Vanilla-Fields)
- [Useful Vanilla Methods](Useful-Vanilla-Methods)
- [Vanilla Interface layers values](Vanilla-Interface-layers-values)
- [Vanilla Interface Changes](Vanilla-Class-Changes)

___
**Other**
- [TagCompound](TagCompound)
- [Mount Data Parameters](MountDataParameters)
- [Open Source Mods](Open-Source-Mods)
- [Command Line Arguments and Server Config](Command-Line)
