build.txt.md, before:

You can create a build.txt file in the top level of your mod's source
directory to give it build properties. The file should be in the
format of:

~~~{.ini}
property = value
otherProperty = value1, value2, value3
~~~

White space anywhere does not matter. However, each property must be
on its own line, list items must be separated by commas, and property
names must be on the left side of an equals sign.

Here is a list of properties:

| Property        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| --:             | :--                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| displayName     | The name your mod will display in on the mods menu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| author          | The author, which will be displayed on the mods menu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| version         | The version, which will be displayed on the mods menu. Must be 2 to 4 numbers separated by periods.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| dllReferences   | A list of dll references your mod has. You must place the dll files in the dllReferences folder both to build this mod and to load this mod. Name them by their file name without the extension.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| modReferences   | A list of mods that your mod depends on. Name them by their file name without the extension.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| weakReferences  | A list of mods that your mod will build against, and can natively interact with, but doesn't necessarily have to be enabled. Basically optional modReferences, but require the modder to be a little more careful in programming to avoid binding errors.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| noCompile       | Whether this mod should compile source code when being built or use dll files pre-compiled by the mod maker. By default this will be false if you do not include this property. If this is set to true, make sure to name your mod file "All.dll" if it does not use Microsoft.Xna.Framework. If it does use Microsoft.Xna.Framework, you will need two dll files: "Windows.dll" must reference Microsoft.Xna.Framework.dll and the Windows version of Terraria.exe, while "Mono.dll" must reference FNA.dll and a non-Windows version of Terraria.exe. |
| homepage        | A link to a website with your mod's information.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| hideCode        | If true, the unpacked mod that results from using tModReader will not include .dll files (compiled code) or .cs files (source code). Defaults to false.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| hideResources   | If true, the unpacked mod that results from using tModReader will not include resource files, such as .png files and .wav files. Use this if you would like to have your sounds and images freely available to other modders. Note that this does not apply to .dll or .cs files (use hideCode and includeSource). Defaults to false.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| includeSource   | If true, the unpacked mod that results from using tModReader will include .cs files. Use this if you would like to share your code freely (make sure to set hideCode to false). Defaults to false.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| buildIgnore     | A list of file patterns to ignore for building the mod. Useful for reducing .tmod file size. Use to ignore version control files, reference images, failed code experiments, and other files. Here are some examples: .git\*, referenceImages\*.png, .gitattributes, *.csproj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| includePDB      | If true, line numbers in exceptions and stack traces will appear if the mod experiences problems. Also, Edit and Continue using Visual Studio is possible.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| languageVersion | A number from 4 to 6 indicating the C# language version to use.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| side            | The ModSide that controls how this mod is synced between client and server. See ModSide for more information. Defaults to Both.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Commit message:

Added a note for version format

build.txt.md, after:

You can create a build.txt file in the top level of your mod's source
directory to give it build properties. The file should be in the
format of:

~~~{.ini}
property = value
otherProperty = value1, value2, value3
~~~

White space anywhere does not matter. However, each property must be
on its own line, list items must be separated by commas, and property
names must be on the left side of an equals sign.

Here is a list of properties:

| Property        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| --:             | :--                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| displayName     | The name your mod will display in on the mods menu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| author          | The author, which will be displayed on the mods menu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| version         | The version, which will be displayed on the mods menu. Must be 2 to 4 numbers separated by periods. **Please note that the version property must be in the following format:** `<major>.<minor>.<build>.<revision>`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| dllReferences   | A list of dll references your mod has. You must place the dll files in the dllReferences folder both to build this mod and to load this mod. Name them by their file name without the extension.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| modReferences   | A list of mods that your mod depends on. Name them by their file name without the extension.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| weakReferences  | A list of mods that your mod will build against, and can natively interact with, but doesn't necessarily have to be enabled. Basically optional modReferences, but require the modder to be a little more careful in programming to avoid binding errors.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| noCompile       | Whether this mod should compile source code when being built or use dll files pre-compiled by the mod maker. By default this will be false if you do not include this property. If this is set to true, make sure to name your mod file "All.dll" if it does not use Microsoft.Xna.Framework. If it does use Microsoft.Xna.Framework, you will need two dll files: "Windows.dll" must reference Microsoft.Xna.Framework.dll and the Windows version of Terraria.exe, while "Mono.dll" must reference FNA.dll and a non-Windows version of Terraria.exe. |
| homepage        | A link to a website with your mod's information.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| hideCode        | If true, the unpacked mod that results from using tModReader will not include .dll files (compiled code) or .cs files (source code). Defaults to false.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| hideResources   | If true, the unpacked mod that results from using tModReader will not include resource files, such as .png files and .wav files. Use this if you would like to have your sounds and images freely available to other modders. Note that this does not apply to .dll or .cs files (use hideCode and includeSource). Defaults to false.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| includeSource   | If true, the unpacked mod that results from using tModReader will include .cs files. Use this if you would like to share your code freely (make sure to set hideCode to false). Defaults to false.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| buildIgnore     | A list of file patterns to ignore for building the mod. Useful for reducing .tmod file size. Use to ignore version control files, reference images, failed code experiments, and other files. Here are some examples: .git\*, referenceImages\*.png, .gitattributes, *.csproj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| includePDB      | If true, line numbers in exceptions and stack traces will appear if the mod experiences problems. Also, Edit and Continue using Visual Studio is possible.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| languageVersion | A number from 4 to 6 indicating the C# language version to use.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| side            | The ModSide that controls how this mod is synced between client and server. See ModSide for more information. Defaults to Both.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
