tModLoader-guide-for-developers.md, before:

___

**[I don't want to create mods, I just want to play with them](tModLoader-guide-for-players)**

___

**[I don't want to create mods, I want to contribute to tModLoader](tModLoader-guide-for-contributors)**

___


## Installation
If you still need to install tModLoader refer to the [tModLoader guide for players](tModLoader-guide-for-players).

## Developing with tModLoader
Choose your favorite IDE to mod with tModLoader. Refer to the [development section](home#development) on the homepage.

## I am new to modding
If you are new to modding, it is recommended to start with [the starter guide](Basic-tModLoader-Modding-Guide). You can then move on to the [easy guides](home#easy-guides).

The following links might be useful for you:
1. [tModLoader documentation](http://tmodloader.github.io/tModLoader/html/annotated.html)
2. [tModLoader WIKI](https://github.com/tModLoader/tModLoader/wiki) (useful information and guides)
3. [Join our Discord server](https://discord.me/tmodloader) (requires a DiscordApp account)
4. [Mod skeleton generator](http://javid.ddns.net/tModLoader/generator/ModSkeletonGenerator.html)
 This tool, made by Jopojelly, can quickly setup a .csproj for you with the barebones of a mod.
5. [tModLoader's official release thread on TCF](http://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.23726/)
6. [tModLoaders help & resources thread](http://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/tmodloader-code-examples-handy-code-snippets.28901)

Commit message:

Recommend in-game menu instead of mod skeleton generator

tModLoader-guide-for-developers.md, after:

___

**[I don't want to create mods, I just want to play with them](tModLoader-guide-for-players)**

___

**[I don't want to create mods, I want to contribute to tModLoader](tModLoader-guide-for-contributors)**

___


## Installation
If you still need to install tModLoader refer to the [tModLoader guide for players](tModLoader-guide-for-players).

## Developing with tModLoader
Choose your favorite IDE to mod with tModLoader. Refer to the [development section](home#development) on the homepage.

## I am new to modding
If you are new to modding, it is recommended to start with [the starter guide](Basic-tModLoader-Modding-Guide). You can then move on to the [easy guides](home#easy-guides).

The following links might be useful for you:
1. [tModLoader documentation](http://tmodloader.github.io/tModLoader/html/annotated.html)
2. tModLoader wiki (useful information and guides) -- you are here right now.
3. [Join our Discord server](https://discord.me/tmodloader) (requires a DiscordApp account)
4. [Mod skeleton generator](http://javid.ddns.net/tModLoader/generator/ModSkeletonGenerator.html) -- note: it is recommended you use the in-game menu for creating a new mod.
5. [tModLoader's official release thread on TCF](http://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/.23726/)
6. [tModLoaders help & resources thread](http://forums.terraria.org/index.php?threads/tmodloader-code-examples-handy-code-snippets.28901)
